_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: "About me"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Welcome! I am a Postdoctoral Research Associate in the [Department of Political Science](https://polisci.wustl.edu/) at [Washington University in St. Louis](https://wustl.edu/). I specialize in International Relations and Political Methodology. I earned my Ph.D in Political Science from the [University *of* North Carolina *at* Chapel Hill](https://www.unc.edu/) in 2019. I also earned my M.A. in Political Science from the University *of* North Carolina *at* Chapel Hill in 2016 and my B.A. in Political Science from [Haverford College](https://www.haverford.edu/) in 2012.

My work has been [published](publications) or is forthcoming in *International Studies Quarterly*, *Political Science Research and Methods*, and *The Journal of Open Source Software*. My [dissertation](research/dissertation) explores the intersection between space, governance, and rebel group goals, employing a multi method research design using Bayesian statistics, agent-based models, and qualitative case studies. My [research](research) has a dual focus on civil conflict and developing new tools for the study of peace and conflict. I have [teaching](teaching) experience in both international relations and quantitative methodology.

Commit message:

add new Weidenbaum Center postdoc position and update CV

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: "About me"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Welcome! I am a Postdoctoral Fellow in the [Department of Political Science](https://polisci.wustl.edu/) and [Weidenbaum Center on the Economy, Government, and Public Policy](https://wc.wustl.edu/) at [Washington University in St. Louis](https://wustl.edu/). I specialize in International Relations and Political Methodology. I earned my Ph.D in Political Science from the [University *of* North Carolina *at* Chapel Hill](https://www.unc.edu/) in 2019. I also earned my M.A. in Political Science from the University *of* North Carolina *at* Chapel Hill in 2016 and my B.A. in Political Science from [Haverford College](https://www.haverford.edu/) in 2012.

My work has been [published](publications) or is forthcoming in *International Studies Quarterly*, *Political Science Research and Methods*, and *The Journal of Open Source Software*. My [dissertation](research/dissertation) explores the intersection between space, governance, and rebel group goals, employing a multi method research design using Bayesian statistics, agent-based models, and qualitative case studies. My [research](research) has a dual focus on civil conflict and developing new tools for the study of peace and conflict. I have [teaching](teaching) experience in both international relations and quantitative methodology.
